[IMP] l10n: update AR documentation (#2430)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/fiscal_localizations/localizations/argentina.rst

Below you can find videos with a general description of the localization, and how to configure it.

- `VIDEO WEBINAR V15 <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_H1HbU-wKVg>`_.
- `VIDEO WEBINAR ECOMMERCE <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5gUi2WWfRuI>`_.

Introduction
============

The following modules are necessary for all databases that require Argentinian localization:

- **l10n_ar**: adds accounting features for the Argentinian localization, which represent the
  minimal configuration needed for a company to operate in Argentina and under the AFIP

>   (Administración Federal de Ingresos Públicos) regulations and guidelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  (Administración Federal de Ingresos Públicos) regulations and guidelines;
```

- **l10n_ar_reports**: adds the VAT Book report which is a legal requirement in Argentina and that
  holds detailed VAT information of sales or purchases recorded on the journal entries. This module

>   includes the VAT summary report as well, which is used to analyze the invoice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  includes the VAT summary report as well, which is used to analyze the invoice;
```

- **l10n_ar_edi**: includes all technical and functional requirements to generate Electronic
  Invoices via web service, based on the AFIP regulations.

The following module is optional and should be installed only if it meets a specific organization

> requirement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
requirement:
```

Environment
***********

The AFIP infrastructure is replicated in two separate environments, **testing** and **production**.

Testing is provided so that the companies can test their databases until they are ready to move
into the **Production** environment. As these two environments are completely isolated from each
other, the digital certificates of one instance are not valid in the other one.

To select a database environment, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Settings --> Argentinean

> Localization` and choose either :guilabel:`Prueba (Testing)` or :guilabel:`Produccion (Production)`
> .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Localization` and choose either :guilabel:`Prueba (Testing)` or :guilabel:`Produccion (Production)`.
```

   :align: center
   :alt: Select AFIP Responsibility Type.

Taxes
~~~~~

As part of the localization module, the taxes are created automatically with their related
financial account and configuration, e.g., 73 taxes for :guilabel:`Responsable Inscripto`.

.. image:: argentina/automatic-tax-configuration.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A list of AR Localization taxes with financial amount and configuration in Odoo.

Taxes types
***********

Argentina has several tax types, the most common ones are:

- :guilabel:`VAT`: this is the regular VAT and can have various percentages;
- :guilabel:`Perception`: advance payment of a tax that is applied on invoices;
- :guilabel:`Retention`: advance payment of a tax that is applied on payments.

Special taxes
*************

Some Argentinean taxes are not commonly used for all companies, and those less common options are
labeled as inactive in Odoo by default. Before creating a new tax, be sure to check if that tax is
not already included as inactive.

.. image:: argentina/special-inactive-taxes.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A list showing less common Argentinean tax options, which are labeled as inactive in Odoo
         by default.

> .. _document-types:

Reviewer 2: This would conflict with any other `document-types` anchor added later in the doc, which is likely to happen.
```suggestion
.. _localizations/argentina/document-types:
```

Document types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In some Latin American countries, like Argentina, some accounting transactions such as invoices and
vendor bills are classified by document types defined by the governmental fiscal authorities. In

> Argentina, the `AFIP <https://www.afip.gob.ar/>`__ is the governmental fiscal authority that

Reviewer 2: Use single underscores in links.
```suggestion
Argentina, the `AFIP <https://www.afip.gob.ar/>`_ is the governmental fiscal authority that
```

not need to fill anything on this view:

.. image:: argentina/default-document-type-info.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A list of document types in Odoo.

.. note::
   There are several :guilabel:`Document Types` types that are inactive by default, but can be
   activated as needed.

Letters
*******

For Argentina, the :guilabel:`Document Types` include a letter that helps indicate the type of
transaction or operation. For example, when an invoice is related to a(n):

- :guilabel:`B2B transaction`, a document type :guilabel:`A` must be used;
- :guilabel:`B2C transaction`, a document type :guilabel:`B` must be used;
- :guilabel:`Exportation Transaction`, a document type :guilabel:`E` must be used.

The documents included in the localization already have the proper letter associated with each
:guilabel:`Document Type`, so there is no further configuration necessary.

.. image:: argentina/document-types-grouped-by-letters.png
   :align: center
   :alt: document types grouped by letters.

Use on invoices
***************

The :guilabel:`Document Type` on each transaction will be determined by:

- The journal entry related to the invoice (if the journal uses documents);

> - The onditions applied based on the type of issuer and receiver (e.g., the type of fiscal regime of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The conditions applied based on the type of issuer and receiver (e.g., the type of fiscal regime of
```

.. image:: argentina/credit-debit-notes-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Credit & debit notes buttons.

When creating a :guilabel:`Credit Note` we can have two scenarios:

#. the FCE is rejected so the :guilabel:`Credit Note` should have the field :guilabel:`FCE,
   is Cancellation?` as *True*; or;
#. the :guilabel:`Credit Note`, is created to annulate the FCE document, in this case the field
   :guilabel:`FCE, is Cancellation?` must be *empty* (false).

.. image:: argentina/fce-es-cancelation.png
   :align: center
   :alt: FCE: Es Cancelación?

Invoice printed report
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :guilabel:`PDF Report` related to electronic invoices that have been validated by the AFIP
includes a barcode at the bottom of the format which represents the CAE number. The expiration date
is also displayed as it is a legal requirement.

.. image:: argentina/invoice-printed-report.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Invoice printed report.

Troubleshooting and auditing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For auditing and troubleshooting purposes, it is possible to obtain detailed information of an
invoice number that has been previously sent to the AFIP. To retrieve this information, go into

> :doc:`Developer Mode <../../../../general/developer_mode>`, then go to the

Reviewer 2: Either:
- use `doc` and start from the root to limit the number of `../`: `/applications/general/developer_mode`
- use `ref` (exceptionally) with the target `developer-mode`.

Localization` and choose either Testing or Production.

.. image:: argentina/select-environment.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Select AFIP database environment: Testing or Production.

AFIP Certificates
*****************

The electronic invoice and other AFIP services work with :guilabel:`WebServices (WS)` provided by
the AFIP.

In order to enable communication with the AFIP, the first step is to request a
:guilabel:`Digital Certificate` if you don't have one already.

#. :guilabel:`Generate certificate Sign Request (Odoo)`. When this option is selected a file with
   extension `.csr` (certificate signing request) is generated to be used the AFIP portal to
   request the certificate.

   .. image:: argentina/request-certificate.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Request a certificate.

#. :guilabel:`Generate Certificate (AFIP)`. Access the AFIP portal and follow the instructions
   described in the next document to get a certificate. `Get AFIP Certificate
   <https://drive.google.com/file/d/17OKX2lNWd1bjUt3NxfqcCKBkBh-Xlpo-/view>`_.

#. :guilabel:`Upload Certificate and Private Key (Odoo)`. Once the certificate is generated, upload

>    it to Odoo using the **pencil icon** next to the field “Certificado” and select the

Reviewer 3: Think this is a guilabel?
```suggestion
   it to Odoo using the :guilabel:`Pencil` icon next to the field “Certificado” and select the
```

   .. image:: argentina/upload-certificate-private-key.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Upload Certificate and Private Key.

.. tip::
   In case you need to configure the Homologation Certificate, please refer to the AFIP official
   documentation: `Homologation Certificate
   <http://www.afip.gob.ar/ws/documentacion/certificados.asp>`_. Furthermore, Odoo allows the user
   to test electronic invoicing locally without a Homologation Certificate. The following message
   will be in the chatter when testing locally:

   .. image:: argentina/local-testing.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Invoice validated locally because it is in a testing environment without testing
            certificate/keys.

Partner
~~~~~~~

Identification Type and VAT
***************************

As part of the Argentinian localization, document types defined by the AFIP are now available
on the Partner form. Information is essential for most transactions. There are six identification
types available by default, as well as 32 inactive types.

.. image:: argentina/identification-types.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A list of AR Localization Document Types in Odoo, as defined by AFIP.

.. note::

>    The complete list of Identification types defined by the AFIP is included in Odoo but only the

Reviewer 4: Here is the complete sentence: 
The complete list of Identification types defined by the AFIP is included in Odoo but only the common ones are active.
@vbe-odoo @samueljlieber

:guilabel:`Identification Types` available by default, as well as 32 inactive types.

.. image:: argentina/identification-types.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A list of AR Localization document types in Odoo, as defined by AFIP.

.. note::
   The complete list of :guilabel:`Identification Types` defined by the AFIP is included in Odoo,
   but only the common ones are active.

AFIP Responsibility Type
************************

In Argentina, the document type and corresponding transactions associated with customers and
vendors is defined by the AFIP Responsibility type. This field should be defined in the partner
form.

.. image:: argentina/select-afip-responsibility-type.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Select AFIP Responsibility Type.

Taxes
~~~~~

As part of the localization module, the taxes are created automatically with their related
financial account and configuration, e.g. 73 taxes for :guilabel:`Responsable Inscripto`.

.. image:: argentina/automatic-tax-configuration.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A list of AR Localization taxes with financial amount and configuration in Odoo.

Taxes Types
***********

Argentina has several tax types, the most common ones are:

> - :guilabel:`VAT`: this is the regular VAT and can have various percentages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`VAT`: this is the regular VAT and can have various percentages;
```

> - :guilabel:`Perception`: advance payment of a tax that is applied on invoices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Perception`: advance payment of a tax that is applied on invoices;
```

Argentina, the `AFIP <https://www.afip.gob.ar/>`__ is the governmental fiscal authority that
defines such transactions.

The document type is an essential piece of information that needs to be clearly displayed in
printed reports, invoices, and journal entries that list account moves.

Each document type can have a unique sequence per journal where it is assigned. As part of the
localization, the document type includes the country on which the document is applicable (this
data is created automatically when the localization module is installed).

The information required for the :guilabel:`Document Types` is included by default so the user does
not need to fill anything on this view:

.. image:: argentina/default-document-type-info.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A list of document types in Odoo.

.. note::
   There are several :guilabel:`Document Types` types that are inactive by default, but can be
   activated as needed.

Letters
*******

For Argentina, the :guilabel:`Document Types` include a letter that helps indicate the type of
transaction or operation. For example, when an invoice is related to a:

> - :guilabel:`B2B transaction`, a document type :guilabel:`A` must be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`B2B transaction`, a document type :guilabel:`A` must be used;
```

> - :guilabel:`B2C transaction`, a document type :guilabel:`B` must be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`B2C transaction`, a document type :guilabel:`B` must be used;
```

bills. For more detail on invoices, please refer to the section :ref:`2.3 document types
<document-types>`.

If the sales or purchase journals do not have the :guilabel:`Use Documents` option activated, they
will not be able to generate fiscal invoices, meaning, their use case will be mostly limited to
monitoring account moves related to internal control processes.

AFIP Information (also known as AFIP Point of Sale)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :guilabel:`AFIP POS System` is a field only visible for the Sales journals and defines the type
of AFIP POS that will be used to manage the transactions for which the journal is created.

The AFIP POS defines the following:

#. the sequences of document types related to the web service; and
#. the structure and data of the electronic invoice file.

.. image:: argentina/sales-journal.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A AFIP POS System field which is available on Sales journals in Odoo.

Web Services
************

**Web Services** help generate invoices for different purposes. Below are a few options to choose
from:

- :guilabel:`wsfev1: Electronic Invoice`: is the most common service, which is used to generate

>   invoices for document types A, B, C, M  with no detail per item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  invoices for document types A, B, C, M  with no detail per item;
```

- :guilabel:`wsbfev1: Electronic Fiscal Bond`: is for those who invoice capital goods and wish to
  access the benefit of the Electronic Tax Bonds granted by the Ministry of Economy. For more
  details go to: `Fiscal Bond

>   <https://www.argentina.gob.ar/acceder-un-bono-por-fabricar-bienes-de-capital>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <https://www.argentina.gob.ar/acceder-un-bono-por-fabricar-bienes-de-capital>`__;
```

- :guilabel:`wsfexv1: Electronic Exportation Invoice`: is used to generate invoices for
  international customers and transactions that involve exportation processes, the document type
  related is type “E”.

.. image:: argentina/web-services.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Web Services.

> Here are some useful fields to know when working with Web Services:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some useful fields to know when working with web services:
```

- :guilabel:`AFIP POS Number`: is the number configured in the AFIP to identify the operations

>   related to this AFIP POS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  related to this AFIP POS;
```

- :guilabel:`AFIP POS Address`: is the field related to the commercial address registered for the
  POS, which is usually the same address as the company. For example, if a company has multiple
  stores (fiscal locations) then AFIP will require the company to have one AFIP POS per location.

>   This location will be printed in the invoice report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This location will be printed in the invoice report;
```

- :guilabel:`Unified Book`: when AFIP POS System is Preimpresa, then the document types (applicable
  to the journal) with the same letter will share the same sequence. For example:

>   - Invoice: FA-A 0001-00000002.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Invoice: FA-A 0001-00000002;
```

>   - Credit Note: NC-A 0001-00000003.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Credit Note: NC-A 0001-00000003;
```

  - Debit Note: ND-A 0001-00000004.

Sequences
~~~~~~~~~

For the first invoice, Odoo syncs with AFIP automatically and displays the last sequence used.

.. note::
   When creating :guilabel:`Purchase Journals`, it's possible to define whether they are related
   to document types or not. In the case where the option to use documents is selected, there
   would be no need to manually associate the document type sequences, since the document number is
   provided by the vendor.

Usage and testing
=================

Invoice
-------

The information below applies for invoice creation once the partners and journals are created and
properly configured.

> Document Type assignation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Document type assignation
```

:guilabel:`Document Type` field.

The most common :guilabel:`Document Type` will be defined automatically for the different
combinations of AFIP responsibility type but it can be updated manually by the user before
confirming the invoice.

Electronic Invoice elements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When using electronic invoices, if all the information is correct then the Invoice is posted in the
standard way unless there is an error that needs to be addressed. Error messages pop-up, they
indicate both the issue that needs attention along with a proposed solution. If an error persists,
the invoice remains in draft until the issue is resolved.

Once the invoice is posted, the information related to the AFIP validation and status is displayed
in the AFIP Tab, including:

- :guilabel:`AFIP Autorisation`: CAE number;
- :guilabel:`Expiration Date`: deadline to deliver the invoice to the customers (normally 10 days
  after the CAE is generated); and
- :guilabel:`Result:` indicates if the invoice has been :guilabel:`Aceptado en AFIP` and/or
  :guilabel:`Aceptado con Observaciones`.

.. image:: argentina/afip-status.png
   :align: center
   :alt: AFIP Status.

> Invoice Taxes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Invoice taxes
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Based on the :guilabel:`AFIP Responsibility type`, the VAT tax can apply differently on the PDF
report:

- :guilabel:`A. Tax excluded`: in this case the taxed amount needs to be clearly identified in the
  report. This condition applies when the customer has the following AFIP Responsibility type of

>   **Responsable Inscripto**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **Responsable Inscripto**;
```

  .. image:: argentina/tax-amount-excluded.png
     :alt: Tax excluded.

- :guilabel:`B. Tax amount included`: this means that the taxed amount is included as part of the
  product price, subtotal, and totals. This condition applies when the customer has the following
  AFIP Responsibility types:

>   - IVA Sujeto Exento

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - IVA Sujeto Exento;
```

>   - Consumidor Final

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Consumidor Final;
```

>   - Responsable Monotributo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Responsable Monotributo;
```

>   - IVA liberado

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - IVA liberado.
```

  .. image:: argentina/tax-amount-included.png
     :align: center
     :alt: Tax amount included.

> Special Use Cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Special use cases
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Invoices for Services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Invoices for services
```

*********************

For electronic invoices that include :guilabel:`Services`, the AFIP requires to report the service
starting and ending date, this information can be filled in the tab :guilabel:`Other Info`.

.. image:: argentina/invoices-for-services.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Invoices for Services.

If the dates are not selected manually before the invoice is validated, the values will be
filled automatically with the first and last day of the invoice's month.

.. image:: argentina/service-dates.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Service Dates.

> Exportation Invoices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exportation invoices
```

********************

Invoices related to :guilabel:`Exportation Transactions` require that a Journal use the AFIP
POS System **Expo Voucher - Web Service** so that the proper document type(s) can be associated.

.. image:: argentina/exporation-journal.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Exporation journal.

When the customer selected in the Invoice is configured with an AFIP responsibility type
:guilabel:`Cliente / Proveedor del Exterior` - :guilabel:`Ley N° 19.640`, Odoo automatically
assigns the:

- Journal related to the exportation Web Service;
- Exportation document type;
- Fiscal position: Compras/Ventas al exterior;
- Concepto AFIP: Products / Definitive export of goods;
- Exempt Taxes.

.. image:: argentina/export-invoice.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Export invoice fields autofilled in Odoo.

.. note::
   The Exportation Documents require Incoterms to be enabled and configured, which can be found in
   :menuselection:`Other Info --> Accounting`.

.. image:: argentina/export-invoice-incoterm.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Export invoice - Incoterm.

> Fiscal Bond

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fiscal bond
```

***********

The :guilabel:`Electronic Fiscal Bond` is used for those who invoice capital goods and wish to
access the benefit of the Electronic Tax Bonds granted by the Ministry of Economy.

For these transactions, it's important to consider the following requirements:

> - Currency (according to the parameter table) and invoice quotation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Currency (according to the parameter table) and invoice quotation;
```

> - Taxes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Taxes;
```

- Zone
- Detail each item

>   - Code according to the Common Nomenclator of Mercosur (NCM)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Code according to the Common Nomenclator of Mercosur (NCM);
```

>   - Complete description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Complete description;
```

>   - Unit Net Price

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Unit Net Price;
```

>   - Quantity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Quantity;
```

>   - Unit of measurement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Unit of measurement;
```

>   - Bonus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Bonus;
```

>   - VAT rate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - VAT rate.
```

> Electronic Credit Invoice MiPyme (FCE)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Electronic credit invoice MiPyme (FCE)
```

**************************************

For SME invoices, there are several document types that are classified as **MiPyME**, which are
also known as **Electronic Credit Invoice** (or **FCE** in Spanish). This clasification develops a
mechanism that improves the financing conditions for small and medium-sized businesses, and allows
them to increase their productivity, through the early collection of credits and receivables issued
to their clients and/or vendors.

For these transactions it's important to consider the following requirements:

> - specific document types (201, 202, 206, etc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- specific document types (201, 202, 206, etc);
```

> - the emitter should be eligible by the AFIP to MiPyME transactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the emitter should be eligible by the AFIP to MiPyME transactions;
```

> - the amount should be bigger than 100,000 ARS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the amount should be bigger than 100,000 ARS;
```

> - A bank account type CBU must be related to the emisor, otherwise the invoice cannot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A bank account type CBU must be related to the emisor, otherwise the invoice cannot;
```

>   be validated, having these errors messages for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  be validated, having an error message such as the following.
```

.. image:: argentina/bank-account-relation-error.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Bank account relation error.

To set up the :guilabel:`Transmission Mode`, go to settings and select one of either
:guilabel:`SDC` or :guilabel:`ADC`.

.. image:: argentina/transmission-mode.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Transmission Mode.

To change the :guilabel:`Transmission Mode` for a specific invoice, go to the
:guilabel:`Other Info` tab and change it before confirming.

.. note::
   Changing the :guilabel:`Transmission Mode` will not change the mode selected in
   :guilabel:`Settings`.

.. image:: argentina/transmission-mode-on-invoice.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Transmission Mode on Invoice.

When creating a :guilabel:`Credit/Debit` note related to a FCE document:

- use the :guilabel:`Credit and Debit Note` buttons, so all the information from the invoice is

>   transferred to the new :guilabel:`Credit and Debit Note`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  transferred to the new :guilabel:`Credit and Debit Note`;
```

- the document letter should be the same than the originator document (either A or B).
- the same currency as the source document must be used. When using a secondary currency there is
  an exchange difference if the currency rate is different between the emission day and the payment
  date. It is possible to create a credit/debit note to decrease/increase the amount to pay in ARS.

.. image:: argentina/credit-debit-notes-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Credit & debit notes buttons.

When creating a :guilabel:`Credit Note` we can have two scenarios:

#. the FCE is rejected so the :guilabel:`Credit Note` should have the field :guilabel:`FCE,

>    is Cancellation?` as *True*; or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   is Cancellation?` as *True*; or;
```

#. the :guilabel:`Credit Note`, is created to annulate the FCE document, in this case the field
   :guilabel:`FCE, is Cancellation?` must be *empty* (false).

.. image:: argentina/fce-es-cancelation.png
   :align: center
   :alt: FCE: Es Cancelación?

Invoice printed report
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :guilabel:`PDF Report` related to electronic invoices that have been validated by the AFIP
includes a barcode at the bottom of the format which represents the CAE number. The expiration date
is also displayed as it is a legal requirement.

.. image:: argentina/invoice-printed-report.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Invoice printed report.

> Troubleshooting and Auditing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Troubleshooting and auditing
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For auditing and troubleshooting purposes, it is possible to obtain detailed information of an
invoice number that has been previously sent to the AFIP. To retreive this information, go into
:doc:`Developer Mode <../../../../general/developer_mode>`, then go to the
:menuselection:`Accounting` menu, and then click on the button :guilabel:`Consult Invoice` button
in AFIP.

.. image:: argentina/consult-invoice-in-afip.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Consult invoice in AFIP.

.. image:: argentina/consult-invoice-in-afip-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Details of invoice consulted in AFIP.

It is also possible to retrieve the last number used in AFIP for a specific document type and POS
Number as a reference for any possible issues on the sequence synchronization between Odoo and
AFIP.

.. image:: argentina/consult-last-invoice-number.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Consult the last invoice number.

> Vendor Bills

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vendor bills
```

------------

Based on the purchase journal selected for the vendor bill, the :guilabel:`Document Type` is now a
required field. This value is auto-populated based on the AFIP Responsibility type of Issuer and
Customer, but the value can be changed if necessary.

.. image:: argentina/changing-journal-document-type.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Changing journal and document type.

The :guilabel:`Document Number` field needs to be registered manually and the format will be
alidated automatically. However, in case the format is invalid, a user error will be displayed
indicating the correct format that is expected.

.. image:: argentina/vendor-bill-document-number.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Vendor bill document number.

The vendor bill number is structured in the same way as the customer invoices, with a difference in
that the document sequence is entered by the user using the following format:
*Document Prefix - Letter - Document Number*.

> Validate Vendor Bill number in AFIP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validate vendor bill number in AFIP
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As most companies have internal controls to verify that the vendor bill is related to an AFIP
valid document, an automatic validation can be set in :menuselection:`Accounting --> Settings -->
Argentinian Localization --> Validate document in the AFIP`, considering the following levels:

- :guilabel:`Not available:` the verification is not done (this is the default value);
- :guilabel:`Available:` the verification is done, in case the number is not valid it only displays
  a warning, but still allows the vendor bill to be posted;
- :guilabel:`Required:` the verification is done and it does not allow the user to post the vendor
  bill if the document number is not valid.

.. image:: argentina/verify-vendor-bills.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Verify Vendor Bills validity in AFIP.

> Validate Vendor Bills in Odoo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validate vendor bills in Odoo
```

*****************************

With the vendor validation settings enabled, a new button shows up on the vendor bills inside of
Odoo, labeled :guilabel:`Verify on AFIP`, which is located next to the :guilabel:`AFIP
Authorization code` field.

.. image:: argentina/verify-on-afip.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Verify on AFIP.

In case the vendor bill cannot be validated in AFIP, a value of :guilabel:`Rejected` will be
displayed on the dashboard and the details of the invalidation will be added to the chatter.

.. image:: argentina/afip-auth-rejected.png
   :align: center
   :alt: AFIP authorization Rejected.

Special use cases
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Untaxed Concepts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Untaxed concepts
```

****************

There are some transactions that include items that are not a part of the VAT base amount, such as
fuel and gasoline invoices.

The vendor bill will be registered using one item for each product that is part of the VAT base
amount, and an additional item to register the amount of the exempt concept.

.. image:: argentina/vat-exempt.png
   :align: center
   :alt: VAT exempt.

> Perception Taxes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perception taxes
```

****************

The vendor bill will be registered using one item for each product that is part of the VAT base
amount, and the perception tax can be added in any of the product lines. As a result, there will be
one tax group for the VAT and another for the perception. The perception default value is always
:guilabel:`0.10`.

.. image:: argentina/vat-perception.png
   :align: center
   :alt: VAT perception.

To edit the VAT perception and set the correct amount, you should use the :guilabel:`Pencil` icon
that is the next to the :guilabel:`Perception` amount. After the VAT perception amount has been
set, the invoice can then be validated.

.. image:: argentina/enter-perception-amount.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enter the perception amount.

Reports
=======

As part of the localization installation, financial reporting for Argentina was added inside the
:guilabel:`Accounting` dashboard. Access these reports by navigating to :menuselection:`Accounting
--> Reporting --> Argentinian Reports`

.. image:: argentina/argentinian-reports.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Argentinian reports.

> VAT Reports

Reviewer: ```suggestion
VAT reports
```

-----------

Sales VAT book
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In this report, all the sales are recorded, which are taken as the basis for the accounting records
to determine the VAT (Tax Debit).

The :guilabel:`Sales VAT` book report can be exported in a Zip file :guilabel:`VAT BOOK (ZIP)`
button in the top left, which contains TXT files to upload in the AFIP portal.

.. image:: argentina/sales-vat-book.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Sales VAT book.

Purchases VAT book
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :guilabel:`Purchases VAT` book report can be exported in a Zip file :guilabel:`VAT BOOK (ZIP)`
button in the top left, which contains `.txt` files to upload in the AFIP portal.

.. image:: argentina/purchases-vat-book.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Purchases VAT book.

> VAT Summary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
VAT summary
```

  This location will be printed in the invoice report.
- :guilabel:`Unified Book`: when AFIP POS System is Preimpresa, then the Document Types (applicable
  to the journal) with the same letter will share the same sequence. For example:

  - Invoice: FA-A 0001-00000002.
  - Credit Note: NC-A 0001-00000003.
  - Debit Note: ND-A 0001-00000004.

Sequences
~~~~~~~~~

For the first invoice, Odoo syncs with AFIP automatically and brings the last sequence used.

.. note::
   When creating :guilabel:`Purchase Journals`, it's possible to define whether they are related
   to Document Types or not. In the case where the option to use documents is selected, there
   would be no need to manually associate the Document Type sequences, since the document number is
   provided by the vendor.

Usage and testing
=================

Invoice
-------

The information below applies for invoice creation once the partners and journals are created and
properly configured.

Document Type assignation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Once the partner is selected, the Document Type will be filled in automatically based on the AFIP
Document Type:

> - **Invoice for a customer IVA Responsable Inscripto, prefix A**: type of document that is going to
>   show all the taxes in detail and customer's information.

Reviewer 3: Remove nested colon (`:`), wording.
```suggestion
- **Invoice for a customer IVA Responsable Inscripto, prefix A** is the type of document that
  shows all the taxes in detail along with the customer's information.
```

  .. image:: argentina/prefix-a-invoice-for-customer.png
     :alt: Invoice for a customer IVA Responsable Inscripto, prefix A.

> - **Invoice for an end customer, prefix B**: type of document that does not detail the taxes, since
>   the taxes are included in the total amount.

Reviewer 3: Remove nested colon (`:`)
```suggestion
- **Invoice for an end customer, prefix B** is the type of document that does not detail the taxes,
  since the taxes are included in the total amount.
```

  .. image:: argentina/prefix-b-invoice-for-end-customer.png
     :alt: Invoice for an end customer, prefix B.

> - **Exportation Invoice, prefix E**: type of document used when exporting goods that shows the
>   incoterm.

Reviewer 3: Remove nested colon (`:`)
```suggestion
- **Exportation Invoice, prefix E** is the type of document used when exporting goods that shows
  the incoterm.
```

****************

The vendor bill will be registered using one item for each product that is part of the VAT base
amount, and the perception tax can be added in any of the product lines. As a result, there will be
one tax group for the VAT and another for the perception. The perception default value is always
:guilabel:`0.10`.

.. image:: argentina/vat-perception.png
   :align: center
   :alt: VAT perception.

To edit the VAT perception and set the correct amount, you should use the :guilabel:`Pencil` icon
that is the next to the :guilabel:`Perception` amount. After the VAT perception amount has been
set, the invoice can then be validated.

Then invoice can be validated.

.. image:: argentina/enter-perception-amount.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enter the perception amount.

Reports
=======

As part of the localization installation, Financial reporting for Argentina was added inside the
:guilabel:`Accounting` dashboard. Access these reports by navigating to :menuselection:`Accounting
--> Reporting --> Argentinian Reports`

.. image:: argentina/argentinian-reports.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Argentinian reports.

VAT Reports
-----------

Sales VAT book
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> 

Reviewer 4: Below you can find the missing text:
_In this report, all the sales are recorded, which are taken as the basis for the accounting records to determine the VAT (Tax Debit)._
@samueljlieber

  This location will be printed in the invoice report.
- :guilabel:`Unified Book`: when AFIP POS System is Preimpresa, then the document types (applicable
  to the journal) with the same letter will share the same sequence. For example:

  - Invoice: FA-A 0001-00000002.
  - Credit Note: NC-A 0001-00000003.
  - Debit Note: ND-A 0001-00000004.

Sequences
~~~~~~~~~

For the first invoice, Odoo syncs with AFIP automatically and brings the last sequence used.

.. note::
   When creating :guilabel:`Purchase Journals`, it's possible to define whether they are related
   to document types or not. In the case where the option to use documents is selected, there
   would no need to manually associate the document type sequences, since the document number is
   provided by the vendor.

Usage and testing
=================

Invoice
-------

The information below applies for invoice creation once the partners and journals are created and
properly configured.

Document type assignation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Once the partner is selected the document type will filled automatically, based on the AFIP

> document type:

Author: Confirming we are using capitalized here moving forward: _Document Type_ is an important term that has it's own menu in Odoo.

**Invoice for a customer IVA Responsable Inscripto, prefix A**.

.. image:: argentina/prefix-a-invoice-for-customer.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Invoice for a customer IVA Responsable Inscripto, prefix A.

**Invoice for an end customer, prefix B**.

.. image:: argentina/prefix-b-invoice-for-end-customer.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Invoice for an end customer, prefix B.

**Exportation Invoice, prefix E**.

.. image:: argentina/prefix-e-exporation-invoice.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: Exportation Invoice, prefix E

Author: Hi @gza-odoo! Could you please provide a description for each Document Type here to provide more context? Thank you 🙏
1. Invoice for a customer IVA Responsable Inscripto, prefix A
2. Invoice for an end customer, prefix B
3. Exportation Invoice, prefix E

>    :alt: Exportation Invoice, prefix E

Reviewer 5: @gza-odoo can you help me with this one?
Thanks!
cc' @samueljlieber @StraubCreative

>    :alt: Exportation Invoice, prefix E

Reviewer 4: Hi @samueljlieber @vbe-odoo,
Below are my comments:
**Invoice for a customer IVA Responsable Inscripto, prefix A**: _Type of document that is going to show all the taxes in detail and customer's information._ 
**Invoice for an end customer, prefix B**: _Type of document that does not detail the taxes. They are included in the total amount._ 
**Exportation Invoice, prefix E**. _Type of document used when exporting goods that shows the incoterm._

starting and ending date, this information can be filled in the tab :guilabel:`Other Info`.

.. image:: argentina/invoices-for-services.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Invoices for Services.

If the dates are not selected manually before the invoice is validated, the values will be
filled automatically with the first and last day of the invoice's month.

.. image:: argentina/service-dates.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Service Dates.

Exportation Invoices
********************

Invoices related to :guilabel:`Exportation Transactions` require that a Journal use the AFIP
POS System **Expo Voucher - Web Service** so that the proper document type(s) can be associated:

.. image:: argentina/exporation-journal.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Exporation journal.

When the customer selected in the Invoice has set the AFIP responsibility type as
:guilabel:`Cliente / Proveedor del Exterior` or :guilabel:`IVA Liberado - Ley Nº 19.640`, Odoo
automatically assignes the:

- Journal related to the exportation Web Service;
- Exportation document type;
- Fiscal position: Compras/Ventas al exterior;
- Concepto AFIP: Products / Definitive export of goods; and

> - Exempt Taxes.

Author: Hi @vbe-odoo and @gza-odoo, just confirming that this section is 100% correct - thank you! 

![When the customer selected in the Invoice has set the AFIP responsibility](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/36018073/191799293-a33efd87-0d1a-428a-81d6-047663b2e0c9.png)

> - Exempt Taxes.

Reviewer 3: Quick follow up:
Please confirm the edits I made in [this comment](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/pull/2430#discussion_r977048191) above the screenshot (in green) are clear/correct, thank you 🙏 
@gza-odoo @vbe-odoo 

cc: @samueljlieber

> - Exempt Taxes.

Reviewer 5: Hi, @samueljlieber so the functional description it's actually correct.
But probably I will just rephrase it a bit to make more clear:
"...When the customer selected in the Invoice is configured with an AFIP responsibility type **Cliente / Proveedor del Exterior - Ley N° 19.640**, Odoo automatically assigns the: ..."

But feel free to improve it if needed, functional wise it's correct :)

cc' @gza-odoo @StraubCreative

> - Exempt Taxes.

Reviewer 3: Thanks @vbe-odoo we can make that adjustment.

@samueljlieber in addition to rewording suggestion from Valentino, can you also double check to see if the typo that says `assignes` is still present?

@vbe-odoo sanity check. Are these adjustments I made to the list below ok? 👇 
I removed the nested colons (`:`) since grammatically that's not correct, and replaced them with `as`, indicating that those are the assignments for each field.

```suggestion
- Journal related to the exportation Web Service;
- Exportation document type;
- Fiscal position as **Compras/Ventas al exterior**;
- Concepto AFIP as **Products / Definitive export of goods**; and
- Exempt Taxes.
```

Please let me know if this is not correct!

cc: @gza-odoo

> - Exempt Taxes.

Reviewer 5: @StraubCreative thanks for the catch, yes those are great for me 💯 !
Thanks!
cc'  @samueljlieber @gza-odoo

  be validated, having these errors messages for example:

.. image:: argentina/bank-account-relation-error.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Bank account relation error.

To set up the :guilabel:`Transmission Mode` go to settings and select one of either :guilabel:`SDC`
or :guilabel:`ADC`.

.. image:: argentina/transmission-mode.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Transmission Mode.

To change the :guilabel:`Transmission Mode` for a specific invoice, go to the
:guilabel:`Other Info` tab and change it before confirming.

.. note::
   Changing the :guilabel:`Transmission Mode` will not change the mode selected in
   :guilabel:`Settings`.

.. image:: argentina/transmission-mode-on-invoice.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Transmission Mode on Invoice.

When creating a :guilabel:`Credit/Debit` note related to a FCE document:

- use the :guilabel:`Credit and Debit Note` buttons, so the correct reference of the originator
  document passed to the note.
- the document letter should be the same than the originator document (either A or B).
- the same currency as the source document must be used. When using a secondary currency

>   there is an exchange difference  if the currency rate is different between the emission day

Reviewer 3: Delete sneaky whitespace 😉 

This list btw is good example where we're right to use periods at the end of each list item since they are complete sentences that fill out the stem sentence that introduces them 🧠 
```suggestion
  there is an exchange difference if the currency rate is different between the emission day
```

  and the payment date, so it's possible to create a credit/debit note to decrease/increase the
  amount to pay in ARS.

.. image:: argentina/credit-debit-notes-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Credit & debit notes buttons.

In the workflow we can have two scenarios:

> #. The FCE is rejected so the :guilabel:`Credit Note` should have the field :guilabel:`FCE,
>    is Cancellation?` as *True*.
> #. The :guilabel:`Credit Note`, is created annul the FCE document, in this case the field
>    :guilabel:`FCE, is Cancellation?` must be *empty* (false).

Reviewer 3: Grammar/formatting:
- lowercase first letter of first word in the list since it's a continuation of stem sentence before it; and
- use a semicolon here to split contrasting statements.

```suggestion
#. the FCE is rejected so the :guilabel:`Credit Note` should have the field :guilabel:`FCE,
   is Cancellation?` as *True*; or
#. the :guilabel:`Credit Note`, is created annul the FCE document, in this case the field
   :guilabel:`FCE, is Cancellation?` must be *empty* (false).
```

.. image:: argentina/fce-es-cancelation.png
   :align: center
   :alt: FCE: Es Cancelación?

Invoice printed report
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :guilabel:`PDF Report` related to electronic invoices that have been validated by the AFIP
includes a barcode at the bottom of the format which represents the CAE number. The Expiration Date

> is also displayed as it's legal requirement.

Reviewer 3: Wording
```suggestion
is also displayed since it's a legal requirement.
```

.. image:: argentina/invoice-printed-report.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Invoice printed report.

Troubleshooting and Auditing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For auditing and troubleshooting purposes, it's possible to obtain detailed information of an
invoice number that has been previously sent to the AFIP. To retreive this information, go into
:doc:`Developer Mode <../../../../general/developer_mode>`, then go to the

> :menuselection:`Accounting` menu, and then click in the button :guilabel:`Consult Invoice` in AFIP.

Reviewer 3: Word order.
```suggestion
:menuselection:`Accounting` menu, and then click on the :guilabel:`Consult Invoice` button in AFIP.
```

.. image:: argentina/consult-invoice-in-afip.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Consult invoice in AFIP.

.. image:: argentina/consult-invoice-in-afip-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Details of invoice consulted in AFIP.

It's also possible to retreive the last number used in AFIP for a specific Document Type and POS
Number, as reference for any possible issues on the sequence synchronization between Odoo and AFIP.

.. image:: argentina/consult-last-invoice-number.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Consult the last invoice number.

Vendor Bills
------------

Based on the purchase journal selected for the vendor bill, the document type is now a required
field. This value is auto-populated based on the AFIP Responsibility type of Issuer and Customer,
but the value can be switched if necessary.

.. image:: argentina/changing-journal-document-type.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Changing journal and document type

> The document number needs to be registered manually and the format is validated automatically,
> however, in case the format is invalid a user error will be displayed indicating the correct format
> that is expected.

Reviewer 3: Some small touchups here around tense and word choice.
```suggestion
The document number needs to be registered manually and the format will be validated automatically,
however, in case the format is invalid, a user error will pop up and indicate the correct format
that is expected.
```

   :align: center
   :alt: AFIP authorization Rejected.

Special Use cases
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Untaxed Concepts
****************

There are some transactions that include items that are not a part of the VAT base amount, such as
fuel and gasoline invoices.

The vendor bill will be registered using one item for each product that is part of the VAT base
amount, and an additional item to register the amount of the Exempt concept.

.. image:: argentina/vat-exempt.png
   :align: center
   :alt: VAT exempt.

Perception Taxes
****************

The vendor bill will be registered using one item for each product that is part of the VAT base
amount, and the perception tax can be added in any of the product lines. As a result, there will be
one tax group for the VAT and another for the perception. The perception default value is always
:guilabel:`0.10`.

.. image:: argentina/vat-perception.png
   :align: center
   :alt: VAT perception.

To edit the VAT perception and set the correct amount, you should use the :guilabel:`Pencil` icon
that is the next to the :guilabel:`Perception` amount. After the VAT perception amount has been
set, the invoice can then be validated.

> Then invoice can be validated.

Reviewer 3: Delete line (redundant).
```suggestion
```

.. image:: argentina/enter-perception-amount.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enter the perception amount.

Reports
=======

> As part of the localization installation, Financial reporting for Argentina was added inside the

Reviewer 3: Don't think this is supposed to be capitalized?
```suggestion
As part of the localization installation, financial reporting for Argentina was added inside the
```

   :alt: AFIP authorization Rejected.

Special Use cases
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Untaxed Concepts
****************

There are some transactions that include items that are not part of the VAT base amount, this is
commonly used in fuel and gasoline invoices. 

The vendor bill will be registered using 1 item for each product that is part of the VAT base
amount and an additional item to register the amount of the Exempt concept:

.. image:: argentina/vat-exempt.png
   :align: center
   :alt: VAT exempt.

Perception Taxes
****************

The vendor bill will be registered using 1 item for each product that is part of the VAT base
amount, the perception tax can be added in any of the product lines, as result we will have one
tax group for the VAT and one for the perception, the perception default value is always
:guilabel:`0.10`.

.. image:: argentina/vat-perception.png
   :align: center
   :alt: VAT perception.

To edit it and set the correct amount you should use the :guilabel:`Pencil` that is the next to the
Perception amount.

.. image:: argentina/enter-perception-amount.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enter the perception amount.
   
Then invoice can be validated.
   
Reports
=======

> As part of the localization the next Financial reports were added:

Reviewer 3: Suggestion on how to rewrite these lean introductions by providing more expository context, as well as navigation/placement information so the user doesn't need to rely on the images to make sense of what's being discussed.

```suggestion
As part of the localization installation, Financial reporting for Argentina was added inside the
:guilabel:`Accounting` dashboard. Access these reports by navigating to :menuselection:`Accounting
--> Reporting --> Argentinian Reports`
```

.. image:: argentina/argentinian-reports.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Argentinian reports.

VAT Reports
-----------

Sales VAT book
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: argentina/sales-vat-book.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Sales VAT book.

The :guilabel:`Sales VAT` book report can be exported in a Zip file :guilabel:`VAT BOOK (ZIP)`

> button in the top left, which contains TXT files to upload in the AFIP portal.

Reviewer 3: The text and the image need to switch places here.

As well, need more context in the writing:
- what is a Sales VAT book
- where is it located / how to navigate to it?
- why should a user care about it / what's it's purpose?

Purchases VAT book
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: argentina/purchases-vat-book.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Purchases VAT book.

The :guilabel:`Purchases VAT` book report can be exported in a Zip file :guilabel:`VAT BOOK (ZIP)`

> button in the top left, which contains TXT files to upload in the AFIP portal.

Reviewer 3: Same here.
Switch image and text.
Needs more written content.

VAT Summary
~~~~~~~~~~~

> 

Reviewer 3: There's no written content here 🥲

Reviewer 4: Below you can find the missing text:
_Pivot table designed to check the monthly VAT totals. This report is for internal usage, it is not sent to AFIP._
@samueljlieber

.. image:: argentina/vat-summary.png
   :align: center
   :alt: VAT Summary.

IIBB - Reports
--------------

IIBB - Sales by jurisdiction
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> 

Reviewer 3: Same here-- where's the documentation?

Reviewer 4: Below you can find the missing text:
_Pivot table where you can validate the gross income in each jurisdiction.
Affidavit for the corresponding taxes to pay, therefore it is not sent to the AFIP._ 
@samueljlieber

.. image:: argentina/iibb-sales-jurisdiction.png
   :align: center
   :alt: IIBB Sales by jurisdiction.

IIBB - Purchases by jurisdiction
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> 

Reviewer 3: Also here-- where's the documentation?

Reviewer 4: Below you can find the missing text:
_Pivot table where you can validate the gross purchases in each jurisdiction.
Affidavit for the corresponding taxes to pay, therefore it is not sent to the AFIP._
@samueljlieber
